In all programs there are two primary components the data that is the stuff that we keep in our memory
and the behavior the things that the programs can do.
The functions and in order for us to deal with that through organized things like that Well we initially
had languages let's say like Java like scheme that had different ideas of what we can do and we learn
how Java and scheme where the inspiration of JavaScript.
We also learned that there's things like functions and objects in javascript that are really really
important.
We learned all about prototype all inheritance about functions and they're useful tools like closures
and idea that functions were first class citizens in JavaScript objects allow us to do prototype all
inheritance and from that idea we also had functional programming an object oriented programming object
oriented programming says that bringing together the data and its behavior in a single location called
an object and containing all of that in a box makes it easier to understand how our programs work functional
programming says that data and behavior are distinctly different things and should be kept separate
for clarity.
So perhaps instead of having a one giant box to describe everything we have multiple boxes the way that
I like to think about it is object oriented programming is like building a robot.
We have a head component a arm component maybe a chess component lacks component antenna components
and we build those together while functional programming says just give me a data and I'll act upon
that data through functions and I'll return something new from the data that you gave me.
Now if you're still confused don't worry we're gonna really dive into this topic.
But the goal of these two sections coming up is not to show you that it's functional programming versus
object oriented programming.
Yes I know that's the title of the sections but my goal at the end of these sections is to convince
you that these are actually complementary.
It's not one over the other.
Instead it's about using both paradigms in unison to make beautiful programs.
You see the beauty of javascript is that it is multi paradigm we can use both of these techniques to
make our code easy to reason about to make it clearer to make it more understandable easy to extend
more efficient and we can use each of these paradigms based on our problems and use the techniques in
each to pick the right paradigm for the specific problem.
And do you see we already started on our journey of functional programming an object oriented programming.
You remember the two pillars.
Well the two pillars finally allow us to learn about these topics closures where a big part of functions
and without closures we wouldn't be able to do the things that we're going to show you.
For functional programming and without prototypes we're not gonna be able to do the things that we're
gonna be able to do in object oriented programming.
So we have our stepping stones ready.
Now the only thing we have left to do is to start.
So I'll see you in the next video by.